# F2A

F2A is an aero-hydro-servo-elastic tool developed based on AQWA by Yang Yang, a postdoctoral research associate in Liverpool John Moores University for performing fully coupled analysis of floating offshore wind turbines (FOWT). The aero-servo-elastic simulation capabilities are fully implemented within the user_force64.dll which is a built-in DLL of AQWA for external force calculation. For a coupled analysis of a floating offshore wind turbine subjected to wind, wave and current loadings, the aerodynamic loads acting on the rotor, the elastic responses of the blades and tower, and the servo-control are examined through the DLL, considering the influence from the platform motions. The platform position, velocity and acceleration at each degree of freedom are passed into the DLL to update the kinematics of the upper structures. Before being passed into DLL, these terms are transformed from the inertial coordinate system to the local coordinate system of the platform. Further details of the development of F2A are presented in the paper：

Yang, Y., Bashir, M., Michailides, C., Li, C., & Wang, J. (2020). Development and application of an aero-hydro-servo-elastic coupling framework for analysis of floating offshore wind turbines. Renewable Energy,161 (23): 606-625. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.renene.2020.07.134.

Please consider to cite the papers below if F2A is involved in your study.

[1] Yang, Y., Bashir, M., Wang, J., Yu, J., & Li, C. (2020). Performance evaluation of an integrated floating energy system based on coupled analysis. Energy Conversion and Management, 223, 113308.
[2] Yang, Y., Bashir, M., Wang, J., Michailides, C., Loughney, S., Armin, M., ... & Li, C. (2020). Wind-wave coupling effects on the fatigue damage of tendons for a 10 MW multi-body floating wind turbine. Ocean Engineering, 217, 107909.
[3] Yang, Y., Bashir, M., Michailides, C., Li, C., & Wang, J. (2020). Development and application of an aero-hydro-servo-elastic coupling framework for analysis of floating offshore wind turbines. Renewable Energy, 161, 606-625.

Please note that wind files are missed in the F2A example directory. I am not able to upload the corresponding wind data generated by TurbSim due to the file size requirement of GitHub. But TurbSim.exe and an input file for TurbSim are given. If you want to run the example case without any changes, you should run TurbSim firstly to generate the wind data files.

I will upload a step-by-step manual for F2A by 30/12/2020.
